## Configuration:
- the --system flag applies to every repository for all users on your computer.
- the --global flag applies to every repository that you use on you computer.
- NO flag or --local applies only to the current repository.
  ```bash
  git config --global -l
  git config --global user.name <name>
  git config --global user.email <email>
  ```
## Working with Remote Repository
if you don't have a local repository clone the remote repository otherwise add it.
- if we have some work done in a local repository we add an associated remote repository.
- if we are starting fresh then we create a remote repository and clone it.
- git clone is a command used to create a local copy of a remote repository locally.
  ``` bash
  git clone <url/to/projectname.git> [local-project-name]
  ```
- Display information about the remote repository
  ``` bash
  git remote [--verbose|-v]
  ```
- adding a remote repository if you have an existing local repo contains some commits that you would like to push to a remote repo 
  ``` bash
  git remote add <name> <repo-url>
  ```
- pushing commit to a remote repository 
  - all commits belong to a branch.
  - by default, there is a single branch and it is called master or main.
  - git push writes commits for a branch to a remote repository.
``` bash
git push [-u] [<repository>] [<branch>]
```
- the first time we push we must provide the remote name and the branch name the -u (--set-upstream) used to create a tracking relation between the remote and the local branch so that git can inform you when they are out of sync. </br> ** so we can read it like the following : </br> i would like to push the [< bransh >] to the remote [< repository >] </br> [-u] and set a tracking relation between them.**
- we can clone a remote branch to a local branch a set an upstream using 
``` bash
git checkout -t origin/mybranch
```
- instead we can create the branch and then set the upstream 
``` bash
git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/<branch> mybranch
```
 

---

# Related Topics:

[[GIT Locations]], [[Overview and CheatSheet]], [[What is Version Control]], [[GIT Objects]], [[GIT IDs]], [[GIT References]]

#git #github